Create an Aura API from the terminal (#344)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/tutorials/create-auradb-instance-from-terminal.adoc

[[create-auradb-instance-in-terminal]]
= Create an AuraDB instance from the terminal
:description: This tutorial describes using the terminal to create an instance in the Aura Console. 

This tutorial describes using the terminal to create an instance in the Aura Console. 

== Preparation

=== Generate API credentials

* Log in to the Aura Console
* Click your email address in the top right corner and select *Account details*.
* In the *API credentials* section, select *Create*. 
Enter a descriptive name and save the generated Client ID and Client Secret.

=== cURL
* Install cURL via your terminal

> * For macOS with Homebrew: Type `brew install curl` in your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For macOS with Homebrew: use `brew install curl`.
```
But what about Windows? Linux? 
Also, these bullets are not steps as the previous section is.

* Install cURL. 
See link:https://curl.se/dlwiz/[curl download wizard] for more information. 
* Check cURL is available: Type `curl -V` in the terminal

== Obtain a bearer token

> **NOTE: Bearer tokens are valid for one hour.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
  Bearer tokens are valid for one hour.
====
```

> In the terminal paste the snippet, replacing `YOUR_CLIENT_ID` and `YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET` with the values generated by the Aura Console. Keep the `:` between the values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the terminal paste the snippet, replacing `YOUR_CLIENT_ID` and `YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET` with the values generated by the Aura Console. 
Keep the `:` between the values.
```

[source, cURL]
----
curl --location 'https://api.neo4j.io/oauth/token' --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' --data-urlencode 'grant_type=client_credentials' -u 'YOUR_CLIENT_ID:YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET' -v
----

== Response body example

> At the end of the returned code, there is an `access_token`. 
> Save the `access_token`.
> It will look similar to this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the `access_token` from the end of the returned code.
It looks similar to this example:
```

[source, cURL]
----
"access_token":"eyJ1c3IiOiJkNzI2MzE1My03MWZmLTUxMjQtOWVjYy1lOGFlM2FjNjNjZWUiLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2F1cmEtYXBpLmV1LmF1dGgwLmNvbS8iLCJzdWIiOiJFSDdsRTgwbEhWQVVkbDVHUUpEY0M1VDdxZ3BNTnpqVkBjbGllbnRzIiwiYXVkIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9jb25zb2xlLm5lbzRqLmlvIiwiaWF0IjoxNzAyOTgzODQzLCJleHAiOjE3MDI5ODc0NDMsImF6cCI6IkVIN2xFODBsSFZBVWRsNUdRSkRjQzVUN3FncE1OempWIiwiZ3R5IjoiY2xpZW50LWNyZWRlbnRpYWxzIn0eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCIsImtpZCI6ImFKbWhtUTlYeExsQmFLdHNuZnJIcCJ9..jkpatG4SCRnxwTPzfEcSJk3Yyd0u_NMH8epNqmSBMUlp_JvvqbKpNdkPIE6vx5hLRgVCVKovxl4KY9yzEkr7R5s4YU3s2K25eNB1q1y3yQ_-9N0e6eOhmjIrsWHMd_rl2NuGIHo6pHihumuJlEg-U2ELkWyu8Iz3zQxjycVnPHzlbu7sbtwVJdU7UzgO12jgDLA1T4mUqvxdAAdnoXO57SwczYoYKY2YL61CMTn-xdQ6MFS8A3vwpGQbRirwVVxvEmoIPCLlQwHeEC4_modJ4cifmjt6ChJb1sxsRpFvdNHm0vNcLjy-96e88D50AMgjvS4VQCmVKA7kUgt7t5IpKg","expires_in":3600,"token_type":"Bearer"
----

== Obtain the tenant ID 

Use cURL to obtain the tenant ID with your token. 
Replace 'YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN' with your token.

[source, cURL]
----
curl --location 'https://api.neo4j.io/v1/tenants' --header 'Accept: application/json' --header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN'
----

> This will return something similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This returns something similar to:
```

[source, cURL]
----
{"data":[{"id":"6e6bbbe2-5678-5f8a-1234-b1f62f08b98f","name":"team1"},{"id":"ad69ee24-1234-5678-af02-ff8d3cc23611","name":"team2"}]}
----

> In the example response above, two tenants are returned. If you’re a member of multiple tenants, select the one you wish to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example response above, two tenants are returned. 
If you are a member of multiple tenants, select the one you wish to use.
```

== Create an Aura instance

=== Configure the instance

> Use the Bearer token and Tenant ID to create the Aura instance.

Reviewer: Why is the _Bearer_ capitalized?

> The following values are customizable `version`, `region`, `memory`, `name`, `type`, `tenantid` and `cloud provider`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following values are customizable `version`, `region`, `memory`, `name`, `type`, `tenantid`, and `cloud provider`. 
```

> See xref:platform/api/overview.adoc[Aura API documentation] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[source, cURL]
----
curl --location 'https://api.neo4j.io/v1/instances' --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --header 'Accept: application/json' --header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN' --data ' { "version": "5", "region": "europe-west1", "memory": "8GB", "name": "instance01", "type": "enterprise-db", "tenant_id": "YOUR_TENANT_ID", "cloud_provider": "gcp" }'
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See xref:platform/api/overview.adoc[Aura API documentation] for more details.

```

> *An aura instance is provisioned.*
> Head to the Aura console if you want to see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, an aura instance is provisioned.
Head to the Aura console for details.
```

Optionally, use this code to check the status:

[source, cURL]
----
curl --location 'https://api.neo4j.io/v1/instances/YOUR_INSTANCE_ID' --header 'Accept: application/json' --header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN'
----

*Response*

[source, cURL]
----
curl --location 'https://api.neo4j.io/v1/instances/YOUR_INSTANCE_ID' --header 'Accept: application/json' --header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN'
----

> If you see `status` with a value of `running`, you can start using the new Aura instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the value of `status` shows `running`, you can start using the new Aura instance.
```
